CSC425 Deliverable 2: User Research & Problem Definition
Student Name: Haley Wilson
 Branch Name: d2-haley-wilson
 Date Submitted: 09-02-25
Target User Group
Junior College Students
Primarily college students in their 3rd+ year of college who are actively searching for internships, right when the pressure to start finding internships gets the heaviest.

Problem Description
The search for internships escalates in a student’s junior year. However, internships are hard to come by without the right connections and overly specific qualifications nowadays. Then, even still, trends have shown that internship to full-time job conversions have decreased. These issues cause even heavier stress to older students.
Evidence of the Problem
NACE reports lower offer/ conversion rates for 2022-23/2024 cohorts.


“It’s been so difficult trying to secure an SWE internship at a mid or large company … I’ve had more successes with working at startups around 5-20 employees … I want better opportunities but I seem to be ghosted by so many companies.” – anonymous student


“…I applied to 200 internships for junior summer but I got only a few interviews and no callback.” – anonymous college junior


“How Might We” Statement
How might we increase the odds of the average college junior gaining a good internship and getting a full-time job after graduation. 

User Persona
Name: Julie Scott
 Age: 20
 Occupation: Full-time college student, Junior
 Location: Murray, KY
 Goals: Complete as many internships as possible before graduation for an optimal resume.
 Frustrations: Hard to find internships that match her major AND qualifications, rarely getting a call back from the internships she has applied to, hard time networking with potential coworkers and employers.
 Technology Comfort Level: High (uses a laptop/smartphone daily, uses sites like LinkedIn, Handshake, Slack, etc. to look for internships/network).

Ethical Lens Applied
Principle: Equity of opportunity in professional advancement
Application: This issue violates fairness by making career success less about merit and more about privilege.


Stakeholders Impacted: Older college students (mainly juniors), careers services workers at universities, employers


Professional Standard: Aligns with ACM Code of Ethics 1.4: “Be fair and take action not to discriminate.”
